[]

  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Module Level:        6

  Module Code:         CSY3023

  Credit Value:        20

  Module Name:         Cybersecurity and Cryptography

  Module Leader:       
  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------

  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Assessment Code:     Resit AS1

  Assessment Type:     Open book, research based

  Assessment           Report- term paper
  Deliverable(s):      

  Weighting (%):       50%

  Submission dates:    Sunday 13th July 2025

  Feedback and Grades  Please see the Assessment and submission section
  due:                 of the module NILE site.
  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------

The University of Northampton Policy on Plagiarism will be strictly
implemented.

You may be asked to attend to a Viva Voce should there be any doubts in
the originality of the submitted work. The paper should be written in
your own words.

You may be invited to attend an in-person or online presentation to
present and clarify the substance of your submitted work.

Read the whole assessment brief before starting to work on the
Assessment Tasks.

Assessment Task Guidance Description

Please, see the assessment information link on Nile.

I.  Learning Outcomes aligned to this assessment:

Please, see the assessment information link on Nile.

This assignment is a report of one of the following:

1.  Online application vulnerability analysis with remediation

2.  Security technology that thwarts cyber threats

Assume the role of a Cyber Security professional with expertise in
applied Cryptography.

Write a report, in the form of a term paper, in which you present the
result of one of the following. Describe your chosen ~~case~~ topic in
detail and explain how you would implement and enforce your
recommendations ~~in order~~ to solve the security requirements of
Organisations or User group.

1.  A research and investigation into the security implications of an
    online Application.

2.  An in-depth analysis of a Security Technology that can provide
    online security when deployed.

In your paper, you should;

1)  Find and experiment with a software tool that could potentially be
    used as part of the provision of Security within the context of your
    chosen topic. You can either;

    a.  Use an Open-Source security tool

  Or

b.  Develop your own Software

Note:

-   Cryptography should be ~~at~~ the main basis of your solution and
    ~~possible~~ recommendations.

-   Your paper should be clear, concise, and written in a technical
    context.

-   You will be expected to present^ your findings to the rest of the
    class.

-   In the first instance, you may discuss the topic of your choice with
    your tutor during the assignment support session.

Your Task in general

You are expected to research and investigate online applications
security issues or technologies that could thwart security threats.

This can be a survey of an area, construction of a security software
system, an analysis of a security tool, or a comparative study. In
essence, conduct a vulnerability assessment.

In general, you will-

-   Build an Application/Technology profile

-   Identify relevant security characteristics or features of your
    chosen topic, [vulnerabilities, threats, attacks on an online
    application] or [security protection offered by a security
    technology]

-   Experiment with a suitable software tool and give an in-depth
    account the tool or review alternative tools.

-   Recommend a solution based on your findings.

A set of suggested areas is included below. You may select one of the
topics, or you may propose your own.

The output of this investigation will be a paper of 2000-4000 words (see
a sample technical paper on Nile). These papers may be made available to
the rest of the class.

A typical technical paper structure is as follows.

Abstract/Preface

II. Introduction: background information, related work, major issues,
    and scope of the investigation.

III. Main Body: your approach to address the issue(s) of your choice,
     your findings, review- comparative analysis- detailed technical
     underpinning, security software review, use & analysis*,
     development of solutions etc. You can break this part into several
     sections.

IV. Summary: conclusions, recommendations- your contribution in general.

V.  References: books, journals, papers, websites, etc.

Assessment will be based on taking the following criteria into
consideration.

1.  The level of challenge met by the student.

2.  Knowledgeable and logical adherence to issues.

3.  Evidence of clearly focused and relevant research effort.

4.  Effective, appropriate, and clear choice and use of S/W tool.

5.  Written and presented with clarity and creativity.

Deliverables

1.  Technical report submitted through Turnitin on Nile.

2.  PowerPoint presentation^ appended to the main report

Research Paper possible topics**

-   Cyber Security issues

-   Penetration testing & Ethical Hacking ~~for improved security~~

-   Practical Cryptographic systems

    -   Security Standards,

    -   Encryption algorithms, Hash functions with appendix and message
        recovery models,

    -   Authentication Systems,

    -   PKI

-   Secure Protocols: IPSec, SSL/TLS

-   WiFi

-   Mobile technologies

-   Online Application Security

-   Systems Security- Windows/ Unix/Linux cryptographic schemes

^The purpose of the presentation is twofold.

  a) Demonstrate your findings with the rest of the class, in
  particular, your assignment practical experimentation.

  b) Demonstrate your awareness and knowledge of your chosen topic for
  assessment purposes.

  Therefore, this should be through a small number of informative power
  point slides, [using screen shots] or give a demo of the software
  tool.

**Note: The above list is provided as a “general” guide.

You may, also use the following link~~s~~ to find other topics of your
own choice. The articles and papers within these sites are, normally,
free. But may require you to register or subscribe. In which case, you
might wish to register as a University of Northampton Student and give
your course details.

  http://www.techrepublic.com/topic/security/

Grading:

The full grading criteria table is available to view on Nile.

Grading criteria will be based on taking the following into
consideration.

1 The level of challenge met by the student.

2. Knowledgeable and logical adherence to issues.

3. Evidence of clearly focused and relevant research effort.

4. Effective, appropriate, and clear choice and use of S/W tool.

5. Written with appropriate technical detail

6. Presented with clarity and creativity.

Use of Generative AI (Artificial Intelligence) within this assessment:

This assignment falls into the following category:

Category 2: GenAI can be used in an assistive role

You may make use of GenAI in your assessment in an assistive role, but
you must acknowledge this appropriately. Ref to the UON guidance on the
different types of GenAI use, what you need to acknowledge and how you
should do this.

Please access the following guidance from the University of Northampton
on the use of Generative AI within assessments.

Assessment Submission

To submit your work electronically, please go to the ‘Submission’ area
on the NILE site and use the relevant submission points to upload the
assignment deliverables. The deadline for this is 11.59pm (UK local
time) on the date of submission. Please note that Essays and text-based
reports should be submitted as Microsoft Word documents (.doc or .docx),
or as guided within the assignment. Please access the following guide to
submitting assessments.

Written work submitted to Turnitin will be subject to anti-plagiarism
detection software. Turnitin checks student work for possible textual
matches against internet available resources and its own proprietary
database. Please access the University of Northampton’s Plagiarism
Avoidance Course (UNPAC) to learn more.

When you upload your work correctly to Turnitin you will receive a
receipt which is your record and proof of submission. If your assessment
is not submitted to Turnitin, rather than a receipt, you will see a
green banner at the top of the screen that denotes successful
submission.

Further Assessment Guidance:

Please access the following document for more general information about
the assessment process, including anonymous marking, submissions, and
where to find feedback and grades.

UON Standard Assessment Guidance.

N.B Work emailed directly to your tutor will not be marked.
